new structure for directives page (#140)
neo4j/docs-graphql: modules/ROOT/pages/type-definitions/directives/index.adoc

[[directives]]
:description: This page lists all directives available in the Neo4j GraphQL Library.

= Directives
:page-aliases: directives.adoc

The Neo4j GraphQL Library provides the following directives to be used whilst defining types:

== Database mapping

> .Database mapping directives

Reviewer: I think you are not required to name the tables, so you can avoid the repetition with the name of the section

Author: removed the table captions

[cols="2,5"]
|===
| Directive | Description

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/database-mapping.adoc#_relationship[`@relationship`]

> | Configure  xref::/type-definitions/types/relationships.adoc[relationships] between object types.

Reviewer: Most verbs are in the third person, but all sentences starting with "configure" seem to be imperative. Is that intended?

Author: adjusted

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/database-mapping.adoc#_relationship_properties[`@relationshipProperties`]

> a| Required to help you distinguish between interfaces which are used for relationship properties, and otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a| Required to differentiate interfaces that are used for relationship properties, and otherwise.
```

> Can only be used on interfaces, as per its definition:

Reviewer: Do you think it's important to have this quote here in the index of the directives section? No other item has it, and maybe it could be mentioned in the page for `@relationshipProperties` itself instead.

Author: no, it should go and was on my follow-up list. but yes, let's get rid of it now

| Specifies the configuration of a GraphQL object type which represents a Neo4j node.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/database-mapping.adoc#type-definitions-alias[`@alias`]
| Maps a GraphQL schema field to a Neo4j property on a node or relationship.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/database-mapping.adoc#_declarerelationship[`@declareRelationship`]
| Configure xref::/type-definitions/types/relationships.adoc[relationships] to be implemented on object types.

|===

== Security

.Security directives
[cols="2,5"]
|===
| Directive | Description

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/security/authentication.adoc[`@authentication`]
| Requires authentication checks when accessing the type.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/security/authorization.adoc[`@authorization`]
| Specifies authorization rules for queries and mutations on the type.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/security/configuration.adoc#authentication-and-authorization-jwt[`@jwt`]
| Configure the JWT authentication filter to include an additional JWT claim.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/security/configuration.adoc#_nested_claims[`@jwtClaim`]

> | Use in combination with `@jwt`. Configure the JWT authentication filter to include an additional nested JWT claim.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Use in combination with `@jwt`. 
Configure the JWT authentication filter to include an additional nested JWT claim.
```

| `@subscriptionsAuthorization`
| Specifies authorization rules for subscriptions on the type.

|===

== Autogeneration

.Autogeneration directives
[cols="2,5"]
|===
| Directive | Description

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/autogeneration.adoc#type-definitions-autogeneration-id[`@id`]
| Marks a field as the unique ID for an object type, and allows for autogeneration of IDs.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/autogeneration.adoc#type-definitions-autogeneration-timestamp[`@timestamp`]

> | Flags fields to be used to store timestamps on create/update events.

Reviewer: Not sure if you are using this formatting for this kind of term. If not, please ignore the suggestions.

```suggestion
| Flags fields to be used to store timestamps on `create` and `update` events.
```

|===

== Schema configuration

.Schema configuration directives
[cols="2,5"]
|===
| Directive | Description

| xref:/type-definitions/directives/schema-configuration/type-configuration.adoc#_query[`@query`]

> | Limits the availability of Query operations in the library.

Reviewer: This was something that I noted before in these docs, there is no rule about what terms should be capitalized or not. In other pages, I have the feeling that these same terms are not capitalized when used in a similar way.

Author: yea, i guess some housekeeping is in order

| xref:/type-definitions/directives/schema-configuration/type-configuration.adoc#_mutation[`@mutation`]
| Limits the availability of Mutation operations in the library.

| xref:/type-definitions/directives/schema-configuration/type-configuration.adoc#_subscription[`@subscription`]
| Limits subscription operations in the library.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/schema-configuration/type-configuration.adoc#type-definitions-default-values-default[`@default`]

> | Allows for the setting of a default value for a field on object creation.

Reviewer: Apparently "to allow for" means "to make provision for something" instead of "enabling something"... but this is just a suggestion:

```suggestion
| Allows the setting of a default value for a field in object creation.
```

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/schema-configuration/type-configuration.adoc#type-definitions-plural[`@plural`]
| Redefines how to compose the plural of the type for the generated operations.

> This is particularly useful for types that are not correctly pluralized or are non-English words.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Particularly useful for types that are not correctly pluralized or are non-English words.
```

| xref:/type-definitions/directives/schema-configuration/field-configuration.adoc#_selectable[`@selectable`]
| Sets the availability of fields on queries and aggregations.

| xref:/type-definitions/directives/schema-configuration/field-configuration.adoc#_settable[`@settable`]

> | Sets the availability of fields on the create and update inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Sets the availability of fields on the `create` and `update` inputs.
```

[cols="2,5"]
|===
| Directive | Description

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/indexes-and-constraints.adoc#type-definitions-indexes-fulltext[`@fulltext`]
| Indicates that there should be a fulltext index inserted into the database for the specified Node and its properties.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/indexes-and-constraints.adoc#type-definitions-constraints-unique[`@unique`]
| Indicates that there should be a uniqueness constraint in the database for the fields that it is applied to.

|===

== Custom logic

.Custom logic directives
[cols="2,5"]
|===
| Directive | Description

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/custom-logic.adoc#_cypher[`@cypher`]
| Overrides field resolution (including `Query` and `Mutation` fields), instead resolving with the specified Cypher.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/custom-logic.adoc#_coalesce[`@coalesce`]
| Exposes a mechanism for querying against non-existent, `null` values on a node.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/custom-logic.adoc#_limit[`@limit`]
| Used on nodes to inject values into Cypher `LIMIT` clauses.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/custom-logic.adoc#_customresolver[`@customResolver`]

> | Specifies that a field is resolved by a custom resolver, and allows the specification

Reviewer: Usually we only break lines when it's a new sentence

of any required fields that is passed as arguments to the custom resolver.

| xref::/type-definitions/directives/custom-logic.adoc#_populatedby[`@populatedBy`]

> | Specifies a callback function that gets executed during GraphQL query parsing,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Specifies a callback function (executed during GraphQL query parsing) to populate fields which have not been provided within the input.
```

> to populate fields which have not been provided within the input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
